# Contributing to Nimble Angular

## Creating an Angular directive for a Nimble element

In order to provide first-class Angular integration for our Nimble elements, we create Angular directives. Each directive targets one or more Nimble elements by their tag names. The directives allow us to specify accessors and events for binding, create good Angular form integration behavior, and extend the behavior of the Nimble elements via lifecycle hooks.

Each Nimble element should have at least one directive which references its tag name (in the `selector` section of the `@Directive` decorator). This registers the element with Angular, so that client applications don't need to use the `CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA`. The main directive for an element should specify `@Input`s (accessors) and `@Output`s (events). `@Input`s are bound to the setter of a property accessor and use `Renderer2` to apply property updates to the underlying `nativeElement`. `@Outputs` can use `@HostListener` to forward DOM events from the custom element as Angular events for two-way binding.

Directives for the underlying Nimble web components should generally be stateless. While you would normally expect directives to own their own property state which are reflected outside using `@HostBinding`s, we instead are treating directives as proxies for the underlying web component which will actually own the directive state. Directive properties are accessors that write updates directly to elements via `Renderer2` and read values from elements via `nativeElement` references.

### Angular forms integration

We can make Nimble components integrate well with Angular forms and `ngModel` binding by implementing the `ControlValueAccessor` interface on directives. Unless custom behavior is needed, we extend Angular's built-in `ControlValueAccessor` implementations to target our controls.

### Icons

Angular integrations for Nimble icon components are generated automatically. Icons are generated as part of `npm run build`, and can also be generated by invoking `npm run generate-icons`. See generation source at nimble-angular/build/generate-icons for more info.

## Testing

The Angular directives need code coverage via unit tests.
* We should test the `ControlValueAccessor` behavior using form value binding (e.g. `[(ngModel)]` binding)
  * We've decided to only support using Nimble form controls in Angular using `[ngModel]`, `[formControl]`, and `[formControlName]` attributes. Other methods of binding the value of form controls (e.g. `[value]` or `(change)`) are not supported and do not need to be tested.
* We should also test that importing the Angular module associated with a Nimble element will also import the Nimble custom element itself.
  * For example, `expect(customElements.get('nimble-foo')).not.toBeUndefined();`
  * Tests should not import the Nimble element directly. Use `import type` if the element's type is needed.
* Any other custom behavior implemented in the directives (lifecycle hooks, new properties) should be tested.
* Tests should be written to verify property values with the different template binding modes. For example, the directive `disabled` property for an element should verify the property value is correctly set under the following conditions:
  * Templates relying on default values, for example: `<my-element></my-element`.
  * Templates setting values via template strings, for example: `<my-element disabled></my-element`.
  * Templates setting values via property bindings, for example: `<my-element [disabled]="isDisabled"></my-element`.
  * Templates setting values via attribute bindings, for example: `<my-element [attr.disabled]="isDisabled"></my-element`.
* When testing asynchronous behavior, prefer using `fakeAsync`. See [Testing Asynchronous Behavior in Components](https://ni.visualstudio.com/DevCentral/_wiki/wikis/AppCentral.wiki/15402/Testing-Asynchronous-Behavior-in-Components).
  * When using the `fakeAsync` utility, use the `processUpdates()` utility to immediately process the Nimble components' internal update queue. The `processUpdates()` should be called after each `fakeAsync` test.

## Updating Angular

When updating the version of Angular used by the package, be sure to also update the versions of forked Angular files in `src/thirdparty/directives`. See the README in the thirdparty folder for details.